tpm docs (#3071)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/vault/v2.x/content/docs/auth/tpm.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: TPM - Auth Methods
description: >-
  The TPM auth method allows machine authentication using TLS client certificates
  backed by Trusted Platform Module (TPM) hardware attestation.
# START AUTO GENERATED METADATA, DO NOT EDIT
created_at: 2026-04-15T00:14:29.000Z
last_modified: 2026-04-15T00:14:29.000Z
# END AUTO GENERATED METADATA
---

# TPM auth method

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'

The `tpm` auth method allows machines to authenticate with Vault using TLS
client certificates that are cryptographically bound to a
[Trusted Platform Module (TPM)](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-library-specification/)
chip. The auth method issues certificates itself through a hardware-attested
enrollment protocol, ensuring that each certificate's private key was generated

> inside, and never left, a specific TPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enrollment protocol to ensure the private key of each certificate was generated
inside, and never left, a specific TPM.
```
Style correction: avoid possessives

## Overview

Authentication with the `tpm` auth method requires two preliminary steps before
a machine can call `login`:

1. **Enroll the TPM** — An operator registers the TPM device in Vault's identity
   store via the [`identity/tpm`](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tpm#create-a-tpm) endpoint,

>    giving it a stable ID derived from the TPM's Endorsement Key (EK).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Enroll the TPM**. You must use the
   [`identity/tpm`](/vault/api-docs/secret/identity/tpm#create-a-tpm) endpoint
   to register the TPM device with the Vault identity store. Vault uses the TPM
   endorsement key (EK) to derive and assign the TPM a stable ID.
```
Style correction: avoid possessives, address the reader directly

2. **Configure the auth method and create a role** — An operator writes to
   `/auth/tpm/config` and creates at least one role that authorizes the enrolled

>    TPM (either by its ID or by group membership).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Configure the auth method and create a role**. Use the `/auth/tpm/config`
   endpoint to create at least one role that authorizes the enrolled
   TPM (either by its ID or by group membership).
```

Once those steps are complete, the machine can run the two-phase certificate

> enrollment (`gentpmcert/begin` → `gentpmcert/finish`) to obtain a client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setup, the machine can run the two-phase certificate
enrollment (`gentpmcert/begin` &rarr; `gentpmcert/finish`) to obtain a client
```

certificate, and then use that certificate to call `/auth/tpm/login` to receive
a Vault token.

### TPM ID

A TPM is identified by the SHA-256 hash of the DER-encoded bytes of its
Endorsement Key public key, formatted as `sha256-<hex>`. For example:

```
sha256-a3f2c1d8e4b5678901234567890abcdef01234567890abcdef01234567890abcdef
```

> This value is stable for the lifetime of the TPM and is embedded in every

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TPM ID is stable for the lifetime of the TPM and embedded in every
```

Now the machine can run the two-phase certificate
enrollment (`gentpmcert/begin` &rarr; `gentpmcert/finish`) to obtain a client
certificate, and then use that certificate to call `/auth/tpm/login` to receive
a Vault token.

### TPM ID

A TPM is identified by the SHA-256 hash of the DER-encoded bytes of its
Endorsement Key public key, formatted as `sha256-<hex>`. For example:

```
sha256-a3f2c1d8e4b5678901234567890abcdef01234567890abcdef01234567890abcdef
```

The TPM ID is stable for the lifetime of the TPM and embedded in every
client certificate issued by the auth method.

## Certificate enrollment

The `gentpmcert` endpoints implement a remote attestation protocol based on
[TPM 2.0 credential activation](https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/resource/tpm-library-specification/).
The protocol proves two things without ever transmitting a private key:

- The EK (and therefore the machine's identity) belongs to a genuine TPM chip.
- The application key in the CSR is resident on the same TPM as the EK.

### Phase 1 — begin

The client calls `POST /auth/tpm/role/:role_name/gentpmcert/begin` with:

- Its **EK public key** (PEM). Vault derives the TPM ID from this key and

>   verifies that the TPM is enrolled and authorised for the role.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Its **EK public key** (PEM). Vault derives the TPM ID from the provided key and
  verifies that the TPM is enrolled and authorized for the role.
```

- **AK parameters** (base64-encoded JSON). The Attestation Key (AK) is a
  signing key created inside the TPM; its public parameters are required to

>   construct the activation challenge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  signing key created inside the TPM. Vault requires the public AK parameters to
  construct the activation challenge.
```

Vault responds with an `encrypted_credentials` blob — a TPM 2.0
`EncryptedCredential` structure that can only be decrypted by the TPM that
holds the EK. The blob also contains a random secret that will be checked in

> phase 2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vault responds with a TPM 2.0 `EncryptedCredential` structure as an
`encrypted_credentials` blob that can only be decrypted by the TPM that holds
the EK. The blob also contains a random secret that Vault checks in phase 2.
```

The challenge expires after **5 minutes**. Each TPM is limited to one
outstanding challenge at a time, and new requests from the same EK are
rate-limited to one every 10 seconds.

### Phase 2 — finish

The client passes the `encrypted_credentials` blob to the TPM's
`TPM2_ActivateCredential` command, which returns the decrypted secret if and
only if the EK matches. The client then calls

> `POST /auth/tpm/role/:role_name/gentpmcert/finish` with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client passes the `encrypted_credentials` blob to the TPM using the
`TPM2_ActivateCredential` command, which returns the decrypted secret if and
only if the EK matches. The client then calls
```

- The decrypted **challenge response** (base64-encoded).
- A **CSR** (PEM) for the application key — the key pair that will be used for
  TLS client authentication going forward.
- **Key certification parameters** (base64-encoded JSON) — a TPM attestation
  structure signed by the AK, proving the application key was created on the
  same TPM.

Vault verifies the challenge response, validates the AK-signed key
certification against the CSR public key, and — if all checks pass — signs and

> returns a client certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certification against the CSR public key. If all the checks pass, Vault signs and
returns a client certificate.
```

### Issued certificate

The signed certificate contains two
[OtherName SAN](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5280#section-4.2.1.6)
extensions that Vault uses to bind the certificate to a specific TPM and role:

| Extension | Content |
| :-------- | :------ |
| TPM ID OID | `sha256-<hex>` of the EK public key |
| Role name OID | Name of the role used during enrollment |

Both values are verified during `login`. A certificate issued for one role
cannot be used to authenticate against a different role.

## CA management

The `tpm` auth method manages its own internal CA. It does **not** use Vault's

> PKI secrets engine. The CA is initialized the first time `/auth/tpm/config` is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tpm` auth method manages its own internal CA. It does **not** use the Vault
PKI plugin. The CA is initialized the first time `/auth/tpm/config` is
```
If we want to drive home that it's not a Vault thing, it might help to explicitly refer to it as a plugin?

written and is automatically rotated according to the configured parameters.

The backend maintains a ring of CA materials with three states:

| State | Purpose |
| :---- | :------ |
| **Active** | Signs new client certificates |
| **Next** | Pre-generated; promoted when the Active CA nears soft expiry |
| **Retired** | Previously active; still trusted for login until its hard expiry |

The *soft expiry* window (`ca_soft_expiry`) defines how far before its hard
expiry the Active CA stops signing new certificates. When the Active CA's
remaining lifetime falls below `ca_soft_expiry`, the Next CA is promoted to
Active and a new Next CA is generated. This means clients with certificates
issued just before a rotation continue to authenticate through the retired CA's

> remaining lifetime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *soft expiry* window (`ca_soft_expiry`) defines how far before its hard
expiry the Active CA stops signing new certificates. When the remaining lifetime
for the Active CA falls below `ca_soft_expiry`, Vault promotes the Next CA to
Active, and generates a new Next CA. Clients with certificates issued just before
a rotation continue authenticating through the retired CA until it reaches hard
expiry.
```

`ca_lifetime` must be at least twice `ca_soft_expiry`. For example, with a
1-year `ca_lifetime` and a 30-day `ca_soft_expiry`, the Active CA signs
certificates for ~11 months and then gracefully retires.

## Roles and authorisation

A role maps one or more TPM devices to a set of Vault token parameters. A TPM
may be authorized via:

> - **`tpm_ids`** — an explicit list of TPM IDs (EK hashes). Use this for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`tpm_ids`** — an explicit list of TPM IDs (EK hashes). Use TPM IDs for
```

  individual-device authorization.
- **`tpmgroup_ids`** — a list of TPM group IDs.

At least one of the two must be set. Both may be set simultaneously; a TPM is

> authorized if it matches either list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least one of the two must be set. If you set both, Vault authorizes any TPM
that matches to either ID list.
```

The `cert_ttl` field controls how long issued client certificates are valid.
The resolution order for cert TTL is:

1. **`cert_ttl`** on the role (if non-zero)
2. **`default_cert_ttl`** on the config (if non-zero)
3. **`ca_soft_expiry`** from the config (fallback)

The actual certificate lifetime is always capped at the signing CA's remaining

> validity, so a certificate will never outlive the CA that signed it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual certificate lifetime is always capped at the remaining validity of
the signing CA, so a certificate will never outlive the CA that signed it.
```

Roles also carry the standard Vault token parameters
(`token_ttl`, `token_max_ttl`, `token_policies`, `token_bound_cidrs`, etc.).

## Login token

> On a successful `login` call the returned token's:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On a successful `login` call the Vault returns a token with:
```

- **Display name** is set to the role's `display_name` (defaulting to the role

>   name if unset).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Display name** set to the `display_name` value of the role. If the role does
  not have a display name, Vault uses the role name by default.
```

> - **Metadata** includes `role_name`, `common_name`, `serial_number`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Metadata** that includes `role_name`, `common_name`, `serial_number`,
```

  `subject_key_id`, `authority_key_id`, and `tpm_id`.

The alias name used is the TPM ID (`sha256-<hex>`).

## Renewal

Token renewal re-validates the TLS client certificate presented on the

> connection. Renewal is denied if:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection. Vault denies the renewal if:
```

- The certificate's `SubjectKeyId` or `AuthorityKeyId` differs from the values

>   recorded at login time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `SubjectKeyId` or `AuthorityKeyId` values in the  certificate differ from
  the values recorded at login time.
```

> - The role's token policies have changed since the token was issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Token policies for the role have changed since the token was issued.
```

> In that case a new login request must be issued.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Vault denies the renewal, you must issue a new login request to receive a new token.
```

## TLS requirements

The `tpm` auth method requires mutual TLS. Ensure `tls_disable` and
`tls_disable_client_certs` are both `false` in the Vault listener
configuration. `tls_require_and_verify_client_cert` must also be false,
since that would require that during the attestation workflow the client
already had a client cert trusted by Vault, but the whole point of `tpm`
auth is to enable provisioning the client with a cert trusted by Vault

> that is known to be backed by a TPM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as it requires the client to already have a client cert trusted by Vault during
the attestation workflow. The goal of supporting TPM is to enable client
provisioning with a cert trusted by Vault that is known to be backed by a TPM.
```

The client certificate presented to Vault must be the certificate

> obtained from the `gentpmcert` workflow — not a separately managed certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
obtained from the `gentpmcert` workflow and not a separately managed certificate.
```

If Vault is fronted by a reverse proxy or load balancer that terminates TLS, the
proxy must forward the validated client certificate in a header and the Vault
listener must be
[configured to accept it](/vault/docs/configuration/listener/tcp#tcp-listener-parameters).

> The connection between the proxy and Vault should be secured with mutual TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We strongly recommend securing the connection between the proxy and Vault with mutual TLS.
```

## Configuration

Auth methods must be configured before machines can authenticate. These steps
are typically performed by an operator or configuration management tool.

> 1. Enroll the TPM within identity.  In this example, the command is being run on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enroll the TPM within identity.  For example, you can run the following example command on the
```

>    client machine that has the TPM so we can fetch the TPM EK using tpm2_createek from tpm2-tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   client machine that has the TPM so you can fetch the TPM EK using `tpm2_createek` from tpm2-tools:
```

  ```shell-session
  $ vault write identity/tpm tpm_ek_public_key="$(sudo tpm2_createek -G rsa -u /dev/stdout -c ./ek.ctx -f pem)"
  ```

>   Note that the TPM ID is emitted by this command, and can be used in setting up roles to grant it access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You need to use the returned TPM ID to set up the roles to grant it access.
```
